# GWSW
A Search for Freshwater in the Saline Aquifer of Coastal Bangladesh

These data and scripts coorespond the the Groundwater paper "A Search for Freshwater in the Saline Aquifer of Coastal Bangladesh" by Chelsea Peters and George Hornberger. 

The cooresponding author is Chelsea N. Peters, Vanderbilt Institute for Energy and Environment, Vanderbilt University; chelspeters7@gmail.com

Abstract: In the polder region of coastal Bangladesh shallow groundwater is primarily brackish with unpredictable apportioning of freshwater pockets. By characterizing groundwater-surface water (GW-SW) interactions, this study attempts to identify areas of potable groundwater for the polder communities. We use transects of piezometers, cores, electromagnetic induction, and water chemistry surveys to explore two sources of potential fresh groundwater: (1) tidal channel-aquifer exchange and (2) meteoric recharge. Fresh groundwater proves difficult to find due to heterogeneous subsurface lithology, asymmetrical tidal dynamics, extreme seasonal fluctuations in rainfall, and limited field data. Geophysical observations suggest substantial lateral variability in shallow subsurface conductivity profiles. Piezometers show varying degrees tidal pressure attenuation away from the channels. Nevertheless, active exchange of freshwater appears to be limited due to low permeability of banks and surface sediments. Delta building processes, including the codeposition of fresh-to-saline porewater and sediments have likely formed the variable brackish shallow aquifer. Impermeable clay facies and the lack of a topographical gradient have limited mixing of groundwater. Pockets of fresh groundwater cannot be identified using readily available hydrogeological methods, so alternative drinking water sources should be pursued. By better understanding the hydrogeology of the system, however, communities are better equipped to redirect water management resources to more feasible and sustainable drinking water options.

These data include tidal gauge and piezometer measurements of pressure, temperature, specific conductivity from various time periods between May 2014 to May 2016. Site locations and descriptions are given in the cooresponding manuscript. Meterological data including precipitation intensity, temperature, and barometric pressure also include. 

These scripts read, clean, and plot data. We include time series analysis, including low pass filtering and phase shift (i.e. time lag) calculations, as well.  
